Subject:  Small contribution
From:     "Mitchell, Dana" <dmitche@Shazam.net>
Date:     3/24/2021, 11:10 AM
To:       Sam Golob <sbgolob@cbttape.org>

Hi Sam, I hope you are doing well!

I recently ran across a small problem, and had to whip up a
usermod to address it, and wondered if you'd like a copy to put
somewhere on CBTTAPE.ORG.  It's not really large enough to
merit its own file, but I'll leave that up to you if you
think it's useful.

Background

The systems we have running at our DR hot site do not have RMF
licensed or running  (I'm sure it's not real expensive, but
the decision was made long before I came here).  That never
caused any trouble in the past,  just a harmless warning message
here and there in SDSF.   After I converted all LPARs from z/OS
2.2 -> 2.4,  the SDSF DA screen wouldn't work at all,
issuing message:

ISF452E SDSFAUX communications failed, return code 0x00000004,
reason code 0x00750412, function "query DA". RMF required to
process request.

I opened a case with IBM support and received this answer;

To request that DA use the MVS control blocks rather than RMF,
and prevent display of this message, the installation can use the
installation exit point of ISFUSER. For more information on the
installation exit routines, refer to Chapter 9, â  Using
installation exit routines,â   on page 389 of the SDSF v2.4
Operations and Customization Guide. Look to section
"Initialization exit point", specifically, field name
UPRSFLAG.UPRNORMF.

Since IBM's direction is to move away from assembler exits,    I
was a little surprised by this.  At the time,  we did not have an
SDSF ISFUSER exit in place so I needed to create a small usermod
from scratch (two actually) to update ISFUSER with the UPRNORMF
bit set.   I have coded one that does a complete replacement of
the source,  and one that merely does a ++SRCUPD to turn on the
UPRNORMF bit.  Depending upon what else if anything the user
needs to do to ISFUSER, either usermod will work.

If you think this might be useful for anyone I can package them
up with a little description and pass along.  Perhaps someone
else may find themselves in the situation where they need a new
ISFUSER where none existed before.   I know this is the first
UMOD I've had to create from scratch in a good many years.

Let me know if you would be interested, and thanks again for your
continued stewardship of the wonderful CBTTAPE.

Dana

DANA N MITCHELL / Senior Systems Programmer
o: 515-288-2828, ext. 2953 / SHAZAM.NET
6700 Pioneer Pkwy / Johnston, IA 50131 /

